.TH cadaver 1 "January 2002" Unix "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
cadaver \- A command\-line WebDAV client for Unix. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
cadaver [-et][-V][-h] http://hostname[:port]/path
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cadaver 
supports file upload, download, on-screen display, namespace operations
(move and copy), collection creation and deletion, and locking operations.

Its operation is similar to the standard BSD 
.BR ftp (1)
client and the Samba Project's 
.BR smbclient (1). 
A user familiar with these tools should be quite
comfortable with cadaver.

.B cadaver
supports automatically logging in to servers requiring authentication via
a .netrc file (similar to
.BR ftp (1)
- see section "THE .netrc FILE" below).
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-e, --expect100"
Enable sending of `Expect: 100-continue' header.
.IP "-t, --tolerant"
Allow cd/open into non-WebDAV enabled collection; use if the server
or proxy server has WebDAV compliance problems.
.IP "-V, --version"
Display version information and exit.
.IP "-h, --help"
Display this help message and exit.
.SH COMMAND REFERENCE
.IP "ls [path]"
List contents of current [or other] collection
.IP "cd path"
Change to specified collection
.IP "pwd"
Display name of current collection
.IP "put local [remote]"
Upload local file
.IP "get remote [local]"
Download remote resource
.IP "mget remote..."
Download many remote resources
.IP "mput local..."
Upload many local files
.IP "edit resource"
Edit given resource
.IP "less remote..."
Display remote resource through pager
.IP "mkcol remote..."
Create remote collection(s)
.IP "cat remote..."
Display remote resource(s)
.IP "delete remote..."
Delete non-collection resource(s)
.IP "rmcol remote..."
Delete remote collections and ALL contents
.IP "copy source... dest"
Copy resource(s) from source to dest
.IP "move source... dest"
Move resource(s) from source to dest
.IP "lock resource"
Lock given resource
.IP "unlock resource"
Unlock given resource
.IP "discover resource"
Display lock information for resource
.IP "steal resource"
Steal lock token for resource
.IP "showlocks"
Display list of owned locks
.IP "propnames res"
Names of properties defined on resource
.IP "chexec [+|-] remote"
Change isexecutable property of resource
.IP "propget res [propname]"
Retrieve properties of resource
.IP "propset res propname value"
Set property on resource
.IP "set [option] [value]"
Set an option, or display options
.IP "open URL"
Open connection to given URL
.IP "close"
Close current connection
.IP "quit"
Exit program
.IP "unset [option] [value]"
Unsets or clears value from option.
.IP "lcd [directory]"
Change local working directory
.IP "lls [options]"
Display local directory listing
.IP "lpwd"
Print local working directory
.IP "logout"
Logout of authentication session
.IP "help [command]"
Display help message
.SH THE .netrc FILE
The file
.I ~/.netrc
may be used to automatically login to a server requiring authentication. The
following tokens (separated by spaces, tabs or newlines) may be used:

.B machine
.I host
.RS
Identify a remote machine
.I host
which is compared with the hostname given on the command line or as an
argument to the
.B open
command.
Any subsequent tokens up to the end of file or the next
.B machine
or
.B default
token are associated with this entry.
.RE

.B default
.RS
This is equivalent to the
.B machine
token but matches any hostname. Only one
.B default
token may be used and it must be after all
.B machine
tokens.
.RE

.B login
.I username
.RS
Specifies the username to use when logging in to the remote machine.
.RE

.B password
.I string
.br
.B passwd
.I string
.RS
Specifies the password to use when logging in to the remote machine.
.RE

Any other tokens (as described in ftp(1)) are ignored.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP "cadaver http://dav.example.com/"
Connects to the server myserver.example.com, opening the root collection.
.IP "cadaver http://zope.example.com:8022/Users/fred/"
Connects to the server zope.example.com using port 8022, opening
the collection "/Users/fred/".
.IP "cadaver https://secure.example.com/"
Connects to a server called secure.example.com using SSL.
.IP
.SH FILES
.IP "~/.cadaverrc"
Individual user settings that can override cadaver defaults.
.IP "~/.netrc"
Login and initialization information used by the auto-login process. See
section "THE .netrc FILE" for details.
.SH AUTHOR
Joe Orton <cadaver@webdav.org>
.SH SEE ALSO
ftp(1), smbclient(1)

